>> Brian Holt: Hooks,
let's talk about hooks.
Hooks are the way that we can
basically introduce interactivity,
or side effects, or some other things to
just a fairly normal React component.
One thing we didn't
chat too much about is,
let's actually just go
take a look at pizza.
>> Brian Holt: One of the key things
here is this function body here.
It's a very hot code path, and when I say
that, I mean it gets run a lot, right?
So it renders and
re-renders and re-renders.
And if it sees nothing's changing,
it doesn't change anything in the DOM,
but as soon as it sees something change,
then it'll go update it.
But the key here is,
this gets run more than you see, right?
And so it's important that you
keep this to be a very performant.
You don't wanna put very heavy
lifting inside of your render paths,
you wanna kinda pull it
outside of the render path so
it doesn't slow down your DOM rendering.
Cuz that's key because people
will start to notice jank, right,
things shifting around
if they're too slow.
So it's an important thing
to be very performant on.
So you don't have to follow up this,
I'm just gonna kinda make
an example really quick.
But if I do something
like counter =
counter++;.
And let counter = 0.
So instead of name for just to say or,
just after this, we'll put counter.
All right, so
you notice this has 0 on it, right?
Right now, nothing's actually
happening to our component, but
if we start adding things to listen for
events, right?
So let's just say, onClick=,
we'll just do something that
does literally nothing.
So it's just like an empty function.
>> Brian Holt: So this is actually still
smart enough to not render anything,
that's pretty cool, okay?
>> Brian Holt: Still smart
enough to not do anything.
But, well, I mean,
this is actually a good example.
You can even do something like Date.now().
So again, you would expect this to
probably keep re-rendering itself, right?
But the point I'm actually trying to
drive home here is, you don't actually
really know when React is gonna
choose to re-render your components.
And when it's gonna choose to re-render,
you can see none of
these are running ever.
In fact, these are actually different,
which is funny to me, right?
There was actually a millisecond
difference between the two of these.
>> Brian Holt: That's because React
is doing these re-render paths.
And it's only gonna try and
re-render whenever it's necessary, and
it tries to not re-render
when it's not necessary.
But you need to make sure that it's
going to display the same markup every
single time given the same inputs.
So something like this, where Date.now, or
counter, where we were counting before,
you would call these an effect,
right, a side effect to your code.
And you don't wanna have any of those.
Make sure that no matter when it's run,
cuz you don't know when it's gonna run,
it's always
gonna give you an expected results given
the inputs that you give into it, right?
So if you were trying to display something
where it was gonna display a clock, right,
you would need to make sure that
all of that was self-contained and
the effects were being handled properly.
We'll get into that when we start
talking about useEffect, right?
But my point here is, stuff like
this where you're keeping track of
variables outside of React, is a bad idea.
And now I'm going to show you
how you're supposed to keep
track of statefulness inside
of your React components.
So let's take away all this nonsense for
now.
>> Brian Holt: All right, so let's go
ahead and make another component here.
We're gonna call it order.jsx.
We're gonna make an order page.
>> Brian Holt: Feel free to follow
along with me if you want to,
this is a somewhat of a long component.
So if you wanna just copy and
paste from the notes here,
I'm not gonna judge you too harshly,
just a little.
>> Brian Holt: All right,
so another opinion here.
I think it's a pretty good opinion.
Notice here in pizza,
we have an arrow function.
And we export default here and
order, I did it a different
way where I'm doing a named
function here called orders.
99.99% the same thing.
The only thing where I actually kinda
like this pattern better than the arrow
function pattern is that when your app
crashes, so if I have an error in here,
order being a named function is
gonna show up in the stack trace.
So you can actually see
order in your stack traces.
It helps with debugging, right?
This pizza here, it would tell you it
came from the pizza component, but
it would not tell you the name of
the function because, technically,
this is not a named function,
it's an anonymous function.
It would be the same thing if I did const
Pizza2 = function blah, right?
This is exactly the same thing, Pizza2
would not show up in the stack trace.
Now, you might ask yourself,
how important is that to me?
It's not super important, right?
But, it's probably enough for
you to know that it's from the order file.
You don't necessarily need to know
that it's from the order function.
So let's just start writing
a bunch of code, const pizzaType.
We're gonna use this to keep track of
what pizzaType they've selected, right?
So this is the order page where they're
gonna select what kind of pizza they want,
what size they want, and they'll
click order, or rather add to cart.
It's gonna be a pepperoni pizza.
And we're gonna start with the pizza
size of medium, these are the defaults.
PizzaSize equals capital M for medium.
And then we'll return
a whole lot of markup.
>> Brian Holt: So we'll call this order.
My CSS is structured in such a way that
we don't have to write className on every
single thing.
That's purely for
the sake of this class so
that you don't have to
write className a bunch.
In general,
please give everything a class,
don't do all the weird selector stuff
that I did to make it easier for you.
In other words, the CSS is
intentionally bad to make it easier for
you to write code.
That's generally not this trade-off
that you would wanna make.
All right, h2,
this is gonna be Create Order page.
It's gonna have a form, and then it's
gonna have a div, and another div.
>> Brian Holt: And
then we're gonna do a label.
The label is gonna be for
pizza-type, pizza Type.
Then we're gonna have
a select name="pizza-type".
>> Brian Holt: We're gonna give
it a value too, that'll be fun.
Value = pizzaType.
>> Brian Holt: So value,
just basically say,
you're gonna set whatever the value
of pizzaType is to the value here.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
we're gonna give it a couple of options.
Option value="pepperoni"
>The Pepperoni Pizza.
Okay, we're gonna make a few of those.
>> Brian Holt: Hawaiian.
>> Brian Holt: And this one was big_meat.
The Big Meat Pizza.
Okay, so far, if it feels like we're
just writing a normal HTML form,
it's cuz we're writing a normal HTML form.
>> Brian Holt: There's not a lot
too interesting to talk about here.
Okay, that's the first div that
we're escaping there, correct, yep.
>> Brian Holt: Make another div in here.
And we're making another label,
this is for pizza-size.
And pizza-size, and
this is Pizza Size, all right?
Another div here, and
we're gonna have some radio buttons,
inside of spans, input, checked=,
>> Brian Holt: (PizzaSize === 'S').
Again, my ligature is putting
three equal signs together,
that's why it looks like
that fat equal sign.
Type="radio", name="pizza-size",
value="S", and id="pizza-s".
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and
then we'll close that off.
>> Brian Holt: Get that all spaced out.
And then we will do a label, again, for
"pizza-s", and this is a small size.
>> Brian Holt: So
we're doing radio buttons for
all the various sizes of pizza, right?
So I'm just gonna go ahead and
copy and paste this span.
And so I have the top one,
which is gonna be small.
This one is gonna be medium.
So we'll just change all
the places where it says S to M.
Right, so they're pretty similar, this
one's just medium, this one's just small.
Same thing here,
this will be the large size.
>> Brian Holt: And Large.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
once we have that, and span and
div, and next div, button.
Type is gonna be "submit".
>> Brian Holt: Add to cart.
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: And then inside of that,
we're gonna put another div.
Brian, you have too many divs,
I'm not gonna disagree with you.
"Order-pizza".
>> Brian Holt: Put a pizza in here.
Right now we're just gonna give it
a normal pepperoni pizza, but eventually,
we'll make it dynamic, to be the one
that you have selected, right?
But for now, we're just gonna say,
"pepperoni", description=,
>> Brian Holt: "Another pep pizza".
Whatever you wanna put there,
image is going to
be assigned "/public/pizzas/
pepperoni.webp",
and then close that tag, okay?
And then just underneath that,
we just wanna put the price.
We'll put that in a p and we'll just say,
whatever you wanna put there, $13.37.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so basically,
we're just working on forms here, right?
The classic thing for most webs,
most stuff can be boiled down to,
you're just submitting a form somewhere,
right?
>> Brian Holt: Using some divs here,
I know all the div seem excessive, but
it's for the styling, right, just to kinda
get everything grouped together visually.
And we got some radio buttons here, so
they can be small, medium, or large,
that sounds good.
And we have a submit button that adds
to cart, which will submit the form.
We will get to how to handle that
form submittal, but let's save here.
So yeah,
we've now created an order component.
We have to go use it before
anything's gonna show up, right?
So let's go to our app.jsx.
We're going to delete the pizza import
cuz we're not gonna use that now.
We're gonna say,
import Order from './Order', cool.
And for now, we're just gonna
make this the default home page.
So you're just gonna say, Order, okay?
>> Brian Holt: I think I'm very wide,
cool.
But you should see
something akin to this.
You'll probably have some errors in here,
that's fine, ignore those for now.